<h1>Testing and Validation Information</h1>

<h2>First Round of Testing</h2>
3 tests were performed: motor encoder test, motor RPM test, and platform sinusoidal motion test.

<h3>Motor Encoder Test</h3>
This test is performed to determine if the number of revolutions counted by the motor encoder is accurate. It will reveal if there is any error associated with the built in encoder. This is important to determine its accuracy before relying on encoder values for motor control in the overall device. Additionally, it is important to validate the capabilities of the motor since it is MR compatible. For a full testing protocol refer to Testing Protocols Folder. This test is performed on the motor only, disconnected from the prototype. To perform this test, place a thin flag on the motor shaft to mark initial position. Run “revolutionsCounter()” on Mbed by pressing 4. This program will rotate the motor at 60 RPM until the encoder counts 60 revolutions. During the test, visually count the number of rotations. Make note if the motor's final position is different from its starting position. The motor is expected to stop after 60 full revolutions in the same position as it started. If the motor spins more or less than 60 revolutions during the test, then there is some error associated with the encoder values that needs to be addressed.

<h3>Motor RPM Test</h3>
This test is performed to determine if the rotations per minute of the motor is accurate. At programmed speeds the prototype will be assessed on how accurate the physical speed is compared to the expected speed. It will reveal if there is any error associated with the code to convert RPM to voltage to control the motor speed. This is important to determine the accuracy of the speed since the prototype’s sinusoidal motion is dependent on this conversion. For a full testing protocol refer to the Testing Protocols Folder. This test is performed on the motor only, disconnected from the prototype. To perform this test, place a thin flag on the motor shaft to mark initial position. Begin recording a video in full view of the motor from above. Run “motorRPMTest()” on Mbed by pressing 5. This program will rotate the motor at a predetermined RPM (20, 40, or 60) until the encoder counts 1 revolution. Once complete, stop the recording. Measure the time it took to spin 1 revolution. The equation of the experimental RPM is 60/experiment_time. If the motor spins more or less than the expected RPM during the test, then there is some error associated with the RPM to voltage conversion that needs to be addressed.

<h3>Platform Sinusoidal Motion Test</h3>
This test is performed to determine if the platform is moving at the expected displacement of the sine wave. Trials will be conducted at different weights, but the motor velocity will be constant throughout trials. The prototype will be assessed on how accurate the displacement is over the course of the test in comparison to expected displacement. The expected displacement is calculated by taking the integral of the motor velocity with respect to time. Motor Velocity = A×sin(2π×f×t), with A=10 RPM and f = 8/60 cycles per second therefore, Expected Displacement = A/(2π×f×t)×cos(2π×f×t). This is important to determine if the accuracy of the sinusoidal motion is within 5% deviation. For a full testing protocol refer to Testing Protocols Folder. This test is performed on the entire prototype assembly. To perform this test, place a bright marker on the platform to mark the initial position. Begin recording a video in full view of the platform from above. Run “sinusoidalSpeedVariation()” on Mbed by pressing 2. This program will set the velocity of the motor to a sine wave that varies over time for 60 seconds. Once complete, stop the recording. Measure the displacement throughout the entire time the motor is moving. Identifying key aspects of the wave and comparing them to the expected wave will determine if the sinusoidal motion is within specifications, or if its accuracy needs to be improved.

<h2>Second Round of Testing</h2>
After making modifications to the protoype and software after preliminary testing we performed another round of testing. In this testing we performed variations of the Platform Sinusoidal Motion Test described above.

<h3>Weight Test</h3>
We performed the Platform Sinusiodal Motion Test as described above again to see if our device had made any improvements in accuracy.
